
What is Git ?
Git is version control system tool that helps to track changes in code. It is free,open source ,fast and scalable.

Main feature 
1. Track the code
2. Collaborate

** Github ?
Website that allow developers to store and manage their code using Git.

** Repo 
We can create public or private repo
For good pratice we need add readme file. In README file we can add why this project we created,what is present in this project etc

** Setup
Window
Download git bash

After install to check or verify setup run command 
git --version

** To Config git (config git means told git to in which account we do changes)

git config --gobal user.name "My Name"
git config --global user.email "your@gmail.com"

if we have more than one github account and in specific repo we want to change with specific user then we can use --local instead of --global

git config --list (To See which user install)

** Clone & Status
Clone - Cloning a repository on our local machine
git clone 'repo url'

To check hidden files through terminal use ls -a

Status - Displays the state of the code (Help to check remote files or local files same or anything change )
git status

Git has 4 types of status
1. untracked -- new files that git doesn't yet track
2. modified -- changed
3. staged   --  file is ready to be committed
4. unmodified -- unchanged

** Add & Commit
add -- adds new or changed files in your working directory to the Git staging area
git add .

Commit -- it is the record of change
git commit -m "Some Message"

** Push Command
push -- upload local repo content to remote repo
git push origin main

** Init Command
init -- used to create a new git repo
git init 
git remote add origin 'link'
git remote -v (to verify remote)
git branch (to check branch)
git branch -M main (to rename branch)
git push origin main

** What's the benifit to create different branch ?
With this main developer or other developer not rely on another developer to finish their work first.

Branch Commands
git branch (to check branch)
git branch -M main (to rename branch)
git checkout 'branch name' (to navigate from one branch to another branch)
git checkout -b 'new branch name' (to create new branch)
git branch -d 'branch name' (to delete branch)

if we present in branch then we can't delete same branch
For e.g -- cyrrently open branch2 and try to delete branch2 then it show error
